Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to be discussing the
current window of weakness. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on Into the Cryptoverse Premium at into
the cryptoverse.com.
We're going to be ending that sale in in
just a few days. Let's go ahead and jump
in. So, Bitcoin is currently trading at
around $73,000. Okay. Now, just
literally like a couple of weeks ago, it
was trading at around $83,000. So, we're
we've basically gone down $10,000
just over the last few weeks. But
notably, the rejection occurred at the
200 day moving average.
precisely at the 200 day moving average,
which is where Bitcoin precisely found
resistance in 2022
and 2018,
as you can see.
So,
the window of weakness normally for
Bitcoin, there's several of them in the
midterm year. First of all, the entire
midterm year is the window of weakness.
So if we think about this, we draw this
out. We have four years in the cycle.
Okay? You have
year 1,
year two,
year three, and year four. Okay? One,
two, three, and four. Now, in this case,
the way that I at least I'm thinking
about it, like the way that I'm sort of
thinking about I mean, I guess you could
think about it in terms of like
presidential cycles, but let's just say
that
year four are your posthav years. Okay?
So, this is like your, you know, your
2013,
2017,
2021, and 2025.
You then have your election years. So
you have 2012. I mean, you really have
2012, 2016,
2020, and 2024.
Your
uh pre-election years, right? So your
pre-election years, those would be 2011,
2015, 2019, and 2023. And then finally,
the midterm years. So 2010, 2014, 2018,
and 2022. But in this case, we're
actually not going to include 2010 uh
just for well, I guess we could. 2010,
2014,
2018, and then 2022.
So
you have these baskets of years, right?
And
the main window of weakness for Bitcoin
is in this year, the first year, the
midterm year. This is the main window of
weakness.
Now, really, you could argue that maybe
the midterm year should be year four,
not year one. But we're just this is how
we're noting it in in this video. The
whole year is a window of weakness. But
within that year, there are pockets of
strength
mixed into the weak year.
And those pockets of strength occur at
somewhat is not perfect. Get off my
back. at somewhat predictable times.
The window of weakness is somewhat
predictable, but again, seasonality is
only right like 70% of the time, right?
Like it it it is right more often than
not, but when it's not right, people get
really mad. And and you know, this is
just the way the markets work. Look at
when Bitcoin found lows so far. The
first one was at the very end of the
post having year. Notice that we also
found a low um right here at the end of
this posth having year. You see that you
get your initial drop and then you
bounce for a little bit and then you
fall again. All right, look back over
here in 2018. You had sort of these
initial drops at the very end of the
post having year and then we sort of
bounced off of it. But you tend to get a
drop at the very end of the post having
year and it's always too soon for a lot
of people to admit it's a bare market
because why should they admit it? Up
until this point every rally has been
bought for years. So you get your first
drop at the very end
of year four,
the first drop of the bare market.
And I mean, you can go back even further
and see that it, you know, it played out
in 2014 as well, right? You got your
first initial drop at the very end of
the post having year.
You're not sure it's a bare market, but
it always is, right? It always is a bare
market that late in the cycle. Okay. The
first major low, therefore occurs
usually at the end of the post having
year. The second low tends to occur in
February. February of 2014, February of
2018,
February of 2022 kind of. I mean, it was
really like late January, like literally
like some of the last days of January.
So, again, it's close. It's not always
perfect.
And then this time, February of 2026.
Okay, February, Bitcoin often finds a
low.
Then you tend to find another low in
April. Sometimes it's a higher low,
sometimes it's a lower low, but that is
when the low forms. All right. Now, go
through history, you'll see what I'm
talking about. April 2014 was a lower
low. April 2018, a higher low. 2020 uh
2022 was a little bit different because
Bitcoin was selling off into April, but
the low didn't occur until May before it
bounced. So, it's not perfect, but more
times than not, Bitcoin finds a low in
February, and more times than not, it
finds a higher low um sometime in like,
you know, April, sometime in that
ballpark. But this time it was like off
by two days, right? the higher low
occurred at the very end of of March
rather than the very beginning of April.
Kind of like how in the last cycle the
low occurred in late January rather than
like really early February. So imagine
in 2022 if you saw this pattern, you're
like, "All right, well the low will be
in February, and then the low ends up
occurring on like January, like 25th or
something, late January." And then
everyone gets mad because the market
found the low a few days before you
thought it was going to. The same thing
happened once again because, you know,
this time I was like, "All right, we'll
likely find a low and it could be a
higher low like 2018.
will likely find the higher low or lower
low in early April. And then what
happened? It occurred on March 29th,
right? Like two days um I guess 3 days
before before April started. So it's not
perfect, but you can see like when the
weakness comes into play. So when is the
next major window of weakness? When does
it end? Well, if you look in 2018, the
next low was in June. It was in late
June. In 2022 it was in mid June.
Two out of three years it was June. In
2014 the high was June. But guess what?
You still had a pretty big drop in June.
You can see that window of weakness sort
of appeared after this rally that also
basically got rejected at the 200 day
moving average plus or minus a few
percent. Okay. So
what we talked about previously was that
and I said this very clearly. I said I
don't think this is 2014 because we
already had that rally to those levels.
We were already at the 200 day moving
average. And when you look at the
year-to- date ROI of Bitcoin in 2026, it
had already had the same move to the
levels that we had achieved in 2014,
right? Like it had already achieved it.
So it didn't make sense to keep calling
for it. it made more sense to say, "All
right, this is when you'll likely start
going down." And a few days ago, about a
week or two ago, probably two weeks ago,
I said that in order for June to
potentially mark a low, we have to start
going down soon because how can June
mark a low if Bitcoin just keeps going
up into June?
It looks like that's what's happening,
right? like the market started selling
off in early May, which is exactly when
it started selling off in 2018
in early May, right? You can see it
started selling off and and it just
continued to slowly bleed out and it
bled out until late June
and then you had a rally, right? A July
rally, the July rally of 2018.
and you had a July rally
that lasted in mid August in 2022.
So notice in 2014 July and August were
weak, but that was because we went up
into June, not down into June. So if
we're thinking about this from a
seasonality perspective, say, you know
what, it's there's a good chance it's
right, but there's a 30% chance it's
wrong. Okay? So, we're just doing the
best we have here. I don't really
recommend trying to trade counter trend
rallies. I I don't I I I think it's a
fool's errand. This is an academic
exercise cuz what else the hell are we
going to do for the next few months?
Okay. So,
in this case, when you're thinking about
when is the next window of weakness
going to end if this plays out like
prior cycles, June would be a candidate
month for another low to form. Could be
a higher low, could be a lower low, but
the window of weakness is open into
June. And history shows us that it can
stay weak into mid to late June. Now,
what's going on in mid to late June, you
ask?
Well, the next Fed meeting is mid June,
but the Fed meeting
is not the important meeting. Even
though it'll be Kevin Wars's first
meeting as chair and it'll be important,
it's not the main thing to watch. The
main thing to watch in mid June is not
the Fed, but it's the Bank of Japan
because the Bank of Japan is likely
going to raise rates in June. There's a
good chance, not it's not a sure thing,
there's a good chance they will raise
rates in June. And there is precedent
for Bitcoin forming a low right after
they raise rates. August of 2024,
the Bank of Japan raised rates or July
was July and then Bitcoin bottomed like
a week later in early August. Okay. So,
what if Bitcoin sells off into June?
people get scared
and then we rally again in July and then
we go through this whole process once
again. And I mean it is a it is a brutal
process of of like you know and I I
think this is why bare markets are so
mentally taxing is because it doesn't
matter if you call it ahead of time
right it doesn't matter if you think a
counter trend rally is going to happen
if you ultimately think the low is not
in people will hate you during that
counter trend rally so if I were to sit
here let's just go through an example if
I were to sit here and say that Bitcoin
finds the low in June but it's not the
low.
It doesn't matter. People People will
look at that. They'll they'll think,
"All right, well, I'm not going to buy
because Ben Ben said it's not the low."
And then if Bitcoin rallies in July,
like it typically does, then they will
get mad at me. So, I want to be clear
about something.
Usually, the way to be successful at
Bitcoin is to ignore it for the first
half of the midterm year. Pretend like
it doesn't exist. I do a pretty bad job
of that because I talk about it every
single day. But I can assure you if I
did not have a YouTube channel, I
wouldn't be looking at Bitcoin every
day, right? I I'd be forgetting that it
exists for the first half of the midterm
year. Because if you look at six-month
candles,
if you look at six-month candles,
look at the first half of 2014, Bitcoin
dropped. The first half of 2018, Bitcoin
dropped. The first half of 2022, Bitcoin
dropped. So far, the first half of 2026,
Bitcoin dropped.
It always drops in the first half of
midterm years. So, typically, you're
better off just ignoring Bitcoin in the
first half of midterm years, fading the
bulls, not falling for the counter trend
rallies, and just saying, you know what,
I'm going to wait and I'm going to b my
time. I'm going to wait for the second
half of the year. So, you don't have to
buy the bottom to make money. No one
knows where the bottom is, but you don't
have to buy the bottom and make money.
I think as you get into the second half
of the year, I have to ask myself, you
know, do I want to go through this
process again where people dunk on me
left and right in a potential future
counter trend rally in July just for the
market to unwind one final time going
into Q4? And I don't know if it's worth
it. you know, maybe there's some degree
of like, why not just call it a day
after a potential June low and and say,
you know what, maybe we go lower in Q4,
but I'm not going to sit here and and,
you know, argue it every single day. The
truth is is I probably will because I
can't help myself, but there is a big
part of me that wishes I wouldn't to be
honest. Um, so let's go back to
so to so where we are right now.
The window of weakness will likely
persist for a few more weeks, probably
into June, mid to late June seems about
right. And if that happens, then I would
be looking for a counter trend rally
potentially in July. Again, these are
not tradable ideas. I'm not saying go
trade this idea. I'm just saying what I
think is the path to the actual low. And
so one way it could play out is Bitcoin
drops down to that 200E moving average,
maybe even goes below it, maybe sweeps
the prior low kind of like it did in
2018 where it swept the low,
bounces
into July, right? And then
we wait and figure out if Bitcoin gets
the final drop in Q4 like it always
does. Does it get the final drop at the
end of the year? And unfortunately, we
can't speed this process up. It doesn't
matter what happens between now and Q4.
Until we actually get to Q4, there's no
way to know. So, Bitcoin could go down
to say 58K
and then bounce back to 70 or 80K and
we're still not going to know for sure
if there won't just be another
capitulation in Q4 when there's always a
capitulation in Q4. And I have to be
honest with you, I mean, so far the lows
line up with 2018 almost exactly,
the low in in February,
the lower high in May, the higher low in
late March, early April. it it's almost
a carbon copy of it with the exception
that the March high in 2018 was a higher
high compared to the what happened later
whereas that sorry the the May high was
a lower high compared to March whereas
this time the May high was a higher high
compared to March that's the only
difference
but if this plays out right then you'd
be looking for a low in June followed by
another high in July high. Now, could
that high be a higher high again? Like,
you know, is it possible that that
Bitcoin does something like this where
it it's putting in these like, you know,
higher highs where it it rallies or
sorry, like drops all the way back down
here, rallies back up, people get super
bulled up, and then you get the final
drop into Q4 and then the bull market
begins. Maybe, right? I don't know. But
I I can assure I I can assure you if we
go put in a new low in June um and it's
late June, you don't want to be panic
selling your Bitcoin then would be my
guess because the market might rip you a
new one in July. The market
basically ripped my face off in July of
2022.
Actually, that's not true. That's not
true.
The market where did I get wrong? So, in
2022,
I no, in 2022, I thought we were going
to have a rally, but I was like two
weeks too early, right? Two weeks too
early. Um, and so by the time we had the
rally, right, like it just basically
rallied back up to where it was. So,
that was that was the the mistake I made
last cycle in um in 2022 is, you know,
thinking that the rally might occur
in June, but it didn't really start
until July, right? Because like in in
June on June 13th, the market still
didn't go anywhere.
You see, and the rally didn't really get
going until July. And I should have I
should have looked at that. I mean, I
should have looked at like 2018 and saw
the rally. Didn't really start going
until July as well. Um, and been a
little bit more open-minded to it taking
until July, but right now, this just
looks like every other every other bare
market rally where you you rally on up
into the 200 day moving average. Uh, you
rally up into that bare market
resistance band, and then you just kind
of sell off.
If you look at the year-to- date ROI of
Bitcoin
in 2014, you can see it kind of came up
and then ultimately the next low that
occurred, this was an October low.
Back then, we actually went lower into
January of 2015, but you can see when
that October low occurred in 2022,
you can see that we had this big drop
right here. This was the June drop. We
we're approaching it now, right? This
was the big June drop in 20
18. You can see we had this June drop.
And I think if you compare 2026 to 2018,
the lows line up, your February low,
your higher low in Mar late March, early
April, your your high in in late May,
and then you sell off into June. The
only difference between 2018 and 2026 is
there's more volatility in 2018 than
2026. And it makes sense that there's
more volatility. There was more
volatility back then because Bitcoin had
a euphoric rally whereas this time it
did not have a euphoric rally.
Therefore, there's less volatility to
the downside.
If you think the markets are dead now,
imagine 2018 where after we came down to
the June low, the market went sideways
at 6,000 for like four or five months.
I mean, look at the chart, right? I
mean, look at this. Literally
from day 18. So, basically from July
until November, the market did almost
absolutely nothing.
And then the windfall occurred in Q4.
It reset the cycle and then the bull
market started.
So,
we can go through the mental gymnastics
like people like to do and say, "Well,
if everyone's expecting it, then it's
not going to happen."
But, I mean, we talked about the top
being in Q4. And everyone was like,
"Well, if the four-year cycle, if
everyone thinks the four-ear cycle is
going to happen, then it won't." And
Bitcoin topped anyways.
Who's to say? Why can't it happen? Like,
why why can't there be a low in Q4?
If we get another rally, I mean, I'm
sure people will will argue that, all
right, well, if you waited until Q4,
you're missing out,
but
I mean, you know, we've had July rallies
in every midterm year, and they still
never led to the low. So, I gota I I got
to think right now, and this is subject
to change, but I have to think right now
that the next low likely forms in June
and there probably will be a rally kind
of like early Q3,
July, August,
which would then set up
the final drop into sort of the
September, October time frame.
And if that plays out and we're sitting
here in Q4 and Bitcoin is is is trading
at a low price, I have a feeling there's
going to be a lot of people that are
bullish now that are going to be bearish
then, but that'll probably be the time
to pivot. So, I we'll just I'm taking
this one one day at a time, right? And
again, you know, if you're struggling
with this, just remember there's other
markets. Stocks are at all-time highs.
International markets are at all-time
highs. Emerging markets are doing well.
You know, energy is doing great.
Manufacturing is doing great. There's
other ways you can be invested in
midterm years. You don't just have to
sit in cash waiting for crypto.
But if you are only interested in
crypto,
then just know the best course of action
for Bitcoin has been to always fade it
for the first half of the midterm year
and then start looking for deals in the
second half. In the first half, just
assume that every quote unquote deal
that presents itself is a fake low. But
in the second half of the year, that's
normally when the low actually forms.
And sometimes it doesn't occur until
like the very end of the year. So those
are my thoughts. That's the window of
weakness. If you guys like the content,
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up,
check out the sale on ITC premium at
into the cryptoverse.com. Again, we're
going to be ending that sale relatively
soon. And I will see you next time. Bye.